docs/knowledge/intro.md, before:

---
title: Welcome
sidebar_position: 0
slug: /
---

This wiki hosts information for JAM implementers. The goal is to aid collaboration and [testnet
setup](https://github.com/jam-duna/jamtestnet). Any information that is not specified in the [Gray
Paper](https://graypaper.com) can be added here.

Join us to build JAM (and win some [prizes](https://jam.web3.foundation/) 🤫):
- [Telegram JAM Testnet](https://t.me/jamtestnet): Casual and public channel to orchestrate a testnet setup on the way to the JAM Toaster.
- [Matrix Gray Paper](https://matrix.to/#/#graypaper:polkadot.io): Technical discussion about the Gray Paper - not implementations.
- [Matrix JAM](https://matrix.to/#/#jam:polkadot.io): Discussions about implementing the Gray Paper.
- [Matrix JAM Implementers Room](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1_Ar0CWH8cDq_mAoVkqZ20fXjfNQQ9ziv1jsVJBAfd1c/edit?gid=0#gid=0): Implementors only chat, ask a [JAM Implementer DAO member](/dao) to invite
- [Testnet Compliance](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1JVt_1daKJWslCaP9hfggKQSN4aGuV_le0XkKcsrjXDc/edit?gid=0#gid=0)

The [official](https://jam.web3.foundation/) and [unofficial](https://hackmd.io/@polkadot/jamprize) communication rules apply to all channels, have fun!

Commit message:

Add 'unofficial' disclaimer (#31)
- **Disclaimer on intro page**

Making it more explicit that this project is not official.

<img width="715" alt="Screenshot 2025-04-07 at 16 57 02"
src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1e5d4142-27f6-48d5-a512-623f3a98de6b"
/>

---------

Signed-off-by: Oliver Tale-Yazdi <oliver@tasty.limo>

docs/knowledge/intro.md, after:

---
title: Welcome
sidebar_position: 0
slug: /
---

:::note
See [graypaper.com](https://graypaper.com) for official information about JAM. This is an unofficial community-driven website.
:::

Join us to build [JAM](https://graypaper.com/):
- [Telegram JAM Testnet](https://t.me/jamtestnet): Casual and public channel to orchestrate a testnet setup on the way to the JAM Toaster.
- [Matrix Gray Paper](https://matrix.to/#/#graypaper:polkadot.io): Technical discussion about the Gray Paper - not implementations.
- [Matrix JAM](https://matrix.to/#/#jam:polkadot.io): Discussions about implementing the Gray Paper.
- [Matrix JAM Implementers Room](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1_Ar0CWH8cDq_mAoVkqZ20fXjfNQQ9ziv1jsVJBAfd1c/edit?gid=0#gid=0): Implementors only chat, ask a [JAM Implementer DAO member](/dao) to invite
- [Testnet Compliance](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1JVt_1daKJWslCaP9hfggKQSN4aGuV_le0XkKcsrjXDc/edit?gid=0#gid=0)

The [official](https://jam.web3.foundation/) and [unofficial](https://hackmd.io/@polkadot/jamprize) communication rules apply to all channels, have fun!
