docs/dao/code_of_conduct.md, before:

---
id: code_of_conduct
sidebar_label: Code of Conduct
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /dao/code_of_conduct
---

#  Code of Conduct for JAM Implementers DAO

_Note: This is only be taken as a draft and *NOT* considered final._   

This has been adapted from the [Permanence DAO Code of Conduct](https://docs.permanence.io/code_of_conduct.html_).

## Dos and Don'ts

This section provides a brief overview of the expectation and guidelines for DAO members.  

### Dos:

1. Actively Participate: Members should engage in the Telegram/Discord group to advance objectives of the JAM Implementer DAO.  There are no specific benchmarks or rules for participation.

2. Represent Professionally: Always represent the DAO positively and professionally online, at events, and in all forms of communication.

3. Follow Telegram/Discord Chat Rules: Always follow both the private and public rules of behavior outlined below.

4. Adhere to the Code of Conduct: Follow the Code of Conduct and consistently demonstrate respectful and inclusive behavior.

### Don'ts:

1. Do Not Violate the Code of Conduct: Avoid any behavior that goes against the program's Code of Conduct, including disrespectful or discriminatory actions.

2. Do Not Spread Misinformation: Ensure all information shared about the DAO is accurate.

3. Do Not Represent Without Authorization: Do not enter into partnerships or commercial arrangements on behalf of the DAO without proper authorization or approval from the DAO.

4. Do Not Engage in Conflicts of Interest: Maintain transparency in all actions and avoid activities that could present a conflict of interest.

## Private+Public Telegram/Discord/Matrix Chat Rules

Members have a private Telegram/Discord group for communication.  All members must read and adhere to the following rules to keep the group friendly, welcoming, professional, and on-topic.  The rules are few, simple, and are generally recognizable as common decency:

1. Trolling and personal attacks will not be tolerated. This includes provoking individuals, threats of violence, or vulgar remarks towards individuals. Depending on the nature of the offense, this may result in a warning or ban. A majority (>50%) of core members must vote to ban a member from the chat(s).

2. Remain on-topic; our topics have a specific context and the conversations should remain relevant. Channels should not be used to draw attention to alternative groups.

3. Baseless/fake representations of groups or individuals are not tolerated in any circumstance within the chatroom and, once identified, might result in a ban.

4. This is a place for informal and inclusive conversation. It is not an opportunity to ask a specific individual to answer arbitrary questions. No one is under investigation.

5. No (concern-)trolling or otherwise incendiary and/or negative comments and narratives. Keep it constructive and positive.

6. No market, price, or “investor” talk. Members can discuss ICOs, investors, or related topics, as long as the goal isn’t to sponsor investment schemes.

7. No constant ranting/complaining. Members may express themselves and vent their frustrations about a topic. However, the frequency of ranting/complaining should not annoy members.

8. A private group means that all correspondence remains private. It is NOT allowed to take screenshots and spread information from private groups. Leaking private conversations may result in a warning or a ban, as described in the first rule under this heading.

All participants are expected to uphold the above rules in both public and private channels.  Moderators for public channels will be selected from the DAO membership.   Moderators may ban participants who engage in behavior that violates these rules after sufficient warning is provided.  

At the moderators’ discretion, a lesser action (such as warning the individual in question) may be taken. Participants, however, should not count on the good grace of the moderators. In particular, where moderators deem it likely that a single individual is using multiple chat monikers to break the CoC repeatedly, bans without warning may be given. 

If members believe someone in the channel is breaking these rules, members may propose a vote for their removal with proof of offense.  No member can be removed without members.

## Amendments to the Code of Conduct

Any DAO member can propose changes to this Code of Conduct by putting a proposition up for a vote in the DAO Telegram/Discord group. The amendment must be approved by a majority vote (≥50%) with the same quorum required for Big Spender Track.

Commit message:

dao-docs: update to code of conduct rules (#30)
Small update to code of conduct rules, to update info on its mutability
as a disclaimer

docs/dao/code_of_conduct.md, after:

---
id: code_of_conduct
sidebar_label: Code of Conduct
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /dao/code_of_conduct
---

#  Code of Conduct for JAM Implementers DAO

_Note: This is only be taken as a draft and *NOT* considered final._   

This has been adapted from the [Permanence DAO Code of Conduct](https://docs.permanence.io/code_of_conduct.html_).

## Dos and Don'ts

This section provides a brief overview of the expectation and guidelines for DAO members.  

### Dos:

1. Actively Participate: Members should engage in the Telegram/Discord group to advance objectives of the JAM Implementer DAO.  There are no specific benchmarks or rules for participation.

2. Represent Professionally: Always represent the DAO positively and professionally online, at events, and in all forms of communication.

3. Follow Telegram/Discord Chat Rules: Always follow both the private and public rules of behavior outlined below.

4. Adhere to the Code of Conduct: Follow the Code of Conduct and consistently demonstrate respectful and inclusive behavior.

### Don'ts:

1. Do Not Violate the Code of Conduct: Avoid any behavior that goes against the program's Code of Conduct, including disrespectful or discriminatory actions.

2. Do Not Spread Misinformation: Ensure all information shared about the DAO is accurate.

3. Do Not Represent Without Authorization: Do not enter into partnerships or commercial arrangements on behalf of the DAO without proper authorization or approval from the DAO.

4. Do Not Engage in Conflicts of Interest: Maintain transparency in all actions and avoid activities that could present a conflict of interest.

## Private+Public Telegram/Discord/Matrix Chat Rules

Members have a private Telegram/Discord group for communication.  All members must read and adhere to the following rules to keep the group friendly, welcoming, professional, and on-topic.  The rules are few, simple, and are generally recognizable as common decency:

1. Trolling and personal attacks will not be tolerated. This includes provoking individuals, threats of violence, or vulgar remarks towards individuals. Depending on the nature of the offense, this may result in a warning or ban. A majority (>50%) of core members must vote to ban a member from the chat(s).

2. Remain on-topic; our topics have a specific context and the conversations should remain relevant. Channels should not be used to draw attention to alternative groups.

3. Baseless/fake representations of groups or individuals are not tolerated in any circumstance within the chatroom and, once identified, might result in a ban.

4. This is a place for informal and inclusive conversation. It is not an opportunity to ask a specific individual to answer arbitrary questions. No one is under investigation.

5. No (concern-)trolling or otherwise incendiary and/or negative comments and narratives. Keep it constructive and positive.

6. No market, price, or “investor” talk. Members can discuss ICOs, investors, or related topics, as long as the goal isn’t to sponsor investment schemes.

7. No constant ranting/complaining. Members may express themselves and vent their frustrations about a topic. However, the frequency of ranting/complaining should not annoy members.

8. A private group means that all correspondence remains private. It is NOT allowed to take screenshots and spread information from private groups. Leaking private conversations may result in a warning or a ban, as described in the first rule under this heading.

All participants are expected to uphold the above rules in both public and private channels.  Moderators for public channels will be selected from the DAO membership.   Moderators may ban participants who engage in behavior that violates these rules after sufficient warning is provided.  

At the moderators’ discretion, a lesser action (such as warning the individual in question) may be taken. Participants, however, should not count on the good grace of the moderators. In particular, where moderators deem it likely that a single individual is using multiple chat monikers to break the CoC repeatedly, bans without warning may be given. 

If members believe someone in the channel is breaking these rules, members may propose a vote for their removal with proof of offense.  No member can be removed without members.

## Disclaimer on the Mutability of the Rules
Governance is an emergent and evolving field, and we envision it as a space for experimentation and rapid iteration. As such, the rules outlined above are subject to change without prior notice. The most current version of the rules can always be found in our GitHub repository with next link `https://github.com/JamBrains/jam-docs/blob/main/docs/dao/code_of_conduct.md`.

Any DAO member may propose changes to this Code of Conduct by submitting a proposal for vote in the DAO Discord group. Amendments require majority approval (≥50%) and must meet the quorum set for the Big Spender Track.
