---
id: Genesis Config
sidebar_label: Genesis Config
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /basics/genesis-config
---

The genesis config provides the initial values that are needed by all nodes to start the JAM chain. Each field is explained below.

## Authorities

A list of Validator Key Tuples, called $\mathbb{K}$ in the Graypaper. This defines the validators that are permissioned to seal blocks for the current epoch. The accounts are the [Dev Accounts](../dev_accounts.md).

## Genesis Block Header

The genesis block header ($H_0$) is the initial header in the chain, upon which
consensus is inherently assumed.

For the purpose of simplifying interoperability testing - such as importing test
vectors - we define the following values for the genesis header.

```json
  {
      "parent": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
      "parent_state_root": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
      "extrinsic_hash": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
      "slot": 0,
      "epoch_mark": {
          "entropy": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
          "tickets_entropy": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
          "validators": [
              "0x5e465beb01dbafe160ce8216047f2155dd0569f058afd52dcea601025a8d161d",
              "0x3d5e5a51aab2b048f8686ecd79712a80e3265a114cc73f14bdb2a59233fb66d0",
              "0xaa2b95f7572875b0d0f186552ae745ba8222fc0b5bd456554bfe51c68938f8bc",
              "0x7f6190116d118d643a98878e294ccf62b509e214299931aad8ff9764181a4e33",
              "0x48e5fcdce10e0b64ec4eebd0d9211c7bac2f27ce54bca6f7776ff6fee86ab3e3",
              "0xf16e5352840afb47e206b5c89f560f2611835855cf2e6ebad1acc9520a72591d"
          ]
      },
      "tickets_mark": null,
      "offenders_mark": [],
      "author_index": 65535,
      "entropy_source": "0x000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
      "seal": "0x000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000"
  }
```

Expected hash: `0x476243ad7cc4fc49cb6cb362c6568e931731d8650d917007a6037cceedd62244`

Binary encoding must adhere to the Block serialization specification established in the Gray Paper.

### Chosen Values Rationale

- `parent`: Set to zero because there is no parent block preceding the genesis block.  
- `parent_state_root`: Set to zero since there is no parent preceding the genesis state.  
- `extrinsic_hash`: There is no extrinsic to hash.
- `slot`: Set to `0` (representing the count of slots since the start of the Jam Common Era).  
- `epoch_mark`: The first block in an epoch should contain the validators for the next epoch.
  - `entropy`: Set to zero.  
  - `tickets_entropy`: No tickets exist, meaning no entropy is utilized.  
  - `validators`: Defined as the dev authorities [accounts](../dev_accounts.md).
- `tickets_mark`: No tickets are available to share.  
- `offenders_mark`: No offenders have been identified yet.  
- `author_index`: As this block has not been authored by a specific validator, use `0xffff` as a wildcard.  
- `entropy_source`: This block has not been signed by a specific validator.  
- `seal`: Similarly, this block has not been signed by a specific validator.  

For technical accuracy, the state referenced by this header hash, which
represents the genesis state ($σ_0$), should match with some of the values
presented within the header:
- `slot`: expected to match $\sigma_0 \cdot \tau$.
- `epoch_mark.entropy` expected to match $\sigma_0 \cdot \eta_1$.
- `epoch_mark.tickets_entropy` expected to match $\sigma_0 \cdot \eta_2$.
- `validators` expected to match $\sigma_0 \cdot \gamma_k$.

It is important to note that using this header as $H_0$ will inevitably
lead to small inconsistencies within the state it references, $\sigma_0$. These
inconsistencies violate certain invariants assumed for posterior states
referenced by other block header hashes when computed through the protocol's
State Transition Function (STF). Specifically, $\sigma_0 \cdot \eta_0$ is technically
expected to be derived from hashing a prior entropy value concatenated with
the fresh entropy generated by the `entropy_source` specified in the header.
However, because this header lacks a valid signature for the entropy source,
we adopt a lenient approach to these discrepancies during this initial testing
phase (and potentially in production as well).
