docs/knowledge/basics/dev-accounts.md, before:

---
id: Dev Accounts (JIP-5)
sidebar_label: Dev Accounts (JIP-5)
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /basics/dev-accounts
---

These well known accounts can be used for testing and are known by all JAM node implementations.

:::warning
This page is assumes that [JIP-5@7048f79](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/JIPs/pull/2) is accepted. The pre-JIP-5 version is available [here](../../old/dev-accounts-pre-jip5.md).
:::

## Seeds

The 256 bit seeds for the dev accounts are generated by encoding the index of the validator as unsigned 32-bit little endian integer and repeating that sequence of bits 8 times. You should *not hash* these seeds - otherwise the created accounts will be different.

With the following indices for the accounts:

| Name   | Index |
|--------|-------|
| Alice  | 0     |
| Bob    | 1     |
| Carol  | 2     |
| David  | 3     |
| Eve    | 4     |
| Fergie | 5     |

## Bandersnatch Nomenclature

Only the `bandersnatch_secret_seed` is shown since it is sufficient to calculate the `bandersnatch_public` key.
Internally, many implementations may first generate a *secret* key (aka *Scalar*) and then derive the public key from it.
But this is an implementation detail and therefore not listed here.

## Alice

```yaml
seed: 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
ed25519_secret_seed: 0x996542becdf1e78278dc795679c825faca2e9ed2bf101bf3c4a236d3ed79cf59
ed25519_public: 0x4418fb8c85bb3985394a8c2756d3643457ce614546202a2f50b093d762499ace
bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x007596986419e027e65499cc87027a236bf4a78b5e8bd7f675759d73e7a9c799
bandersnatch_public: 0xff71c6c03ff88adb5ed52c9681de1629a54e702fc14729f6b50d2f0a76f185b3
dns_alt_name: "eecgwpgwq3noky4ijm4jmvjtmuzv44qvigciusxakq5epnrfj2utb"
```

## Bob

```yaml
seed: 0x0100000001000000010000000100000001000000010000000100000001000000
ed25519_secret_seed: 0xb81e308145d97464d2bc92d35d227a9e62241a16451af6da5053e309be4f91d7
ed25519_public: 0xad93247bd01307550ec7acd757ce6fb805fcf73db364063265b30a949e90d933
bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x12ca375c9242101c99ad5fafe8997411f112ae10e0e5b7c4589e107c433700ac
bandersnatch_public: 0xdee6d555b82024f1ccf8a1e37e60fa60fd40b1958c4bb3006af78647950e1b91
dns_alt_name: "en5ejs5b2tybkfh4ym5vpfh7nynby73xhtfzmazumtvcijpcsz6ma"
```

## Carol

```yaml
seed: 0x0200000002000000020000000200000002000000020000000200000002000000
ed25519_secret_seed: 0x0093c8c10a88ebbc99b35b72897a26d259313ee9bad97436a437d2e43aaafa0f
ed25519_public: 0xcab2b9ff25c2410fbe9b8a717abb298c716a03983c98ceb4def2087500b8e341
bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x3d71dc0ffd02d90524fda3e4a220e7ec514a258c59457d3077ce4d4f003fd98a
bandersnatch_public: 0x9326edb21e5541717fde24ec085000b28709847b8aab1ac51f84e94b37ca1b66
dns_alt_name: "ekwmt37xecoq6a7otkm4ux5gfmm4uwbat4bg5m223shckhaaxdpqa"
```

## David

```yaml
seed: 0x0300000003000000030000000300000003000000030000000300000003000000
ed25519_secret_seed: 0x69b3a7031787e12bfbdcac1b7a737b3e5a9f9450c37e215f6d3b57730e21001a
ed25519_public: 0xf30aa5444688b3cab47697b37d5cac5707bb3289e986b19b17db437206931a8d
bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x107a9148b39a1099eeaee13ac0e3c6b9c256258b51c967747af0f8749398a276
bandersnatch_public: 0x0746846d17469fb2f95ef365efcab9f4e22fa1feb53111c995376be8019981cc
dns_alt_name: "etxckkczii4mvm22ox4m3horvx2bwlzerjxbd3n6c36qehdms2idb"
```

## Eve

```yaml
seed: 0x0400000004000000040000000400000004000000040000000400000004000000
ed25519_secret_seed: 0xb4de9ebf8db5428930baa5a98d26679ab2a03eae7c791d582e6b75b7f018d0d4
ed25519_public: 0x8b8c5d436f92ecf605421e873a99ec528761eb52a88a2f9a057b3b3003e6f32a
bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x0bb36f5ba8e3ba602781bb714e67182410440ce18aa800c4cb4dd22525b70409
bandersnatch_public: 0x151e5c8fe2b9d8a606966a79edd2f9e5db47e83947ce368ccba53bf6ba20a40b
dns_alt_name: "eled3vb5nse3n7cii6ybvtms5s2bdwvlkivc7cnwa33oatby4txka"
```

## Fergie

```yaml
seed: 0x0500000005000000050000000500000005000000050000000500000005000000
ed25519_secret_seed: 0x4a6482f8f479e3ba2b845f8cef284f4b3208ba3241ed82caa1b5ce9fc6281730
ed25519_public: 0xab0084d01534b31c1dd87c81645fd762482a90027754041ca1b56133d0466c06
bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x75e73b8364bf4753c5802021c6aa6548cddb63fe668e3cacf7b48cdb6824bb09
bandersnatch_public: 0x2105650944fcd101621fd5bb3124c9fd191d114b7ad936c1d79d734f9f21392e
dns_alt_name: "elfaiiixcuzmzroa34lajwp52cdsucikaxdviaoeuvnygdi3imtba"
```

<details>

<summary>Yaml File</summary>

```yaml
Alice:
  seed: 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
  ed25519_secret_seed: 0x996542becdf1e78278dc795679c825faca2e9ed2bf101bf3c4a236d3ed79cf59
  ed25519_public: 0x4418fb8c85bb3985394a8c2756d3643457ce614546202a2f50b093d762499ace
  bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x007596986419e027e65499cc87027a236bf4a78b5e8bd7f675759d73e7a9c799
  bandersnatch_public: 0xff71c6c03ff88adb5ed52c9681de1629a54e702fc14729f6b50d2f0a76f185b3
  dns_alt_name: "eecgwpgwq3noky4ijm4jmvjtmuzv44qvigciusxakq5epnrfj2utb"

Bob:
  seed: 0x0100000001000000010000000100000001000000010000000100000001000000
  ed25519_secret_seed: 0xb81e308145d97464d2bc92d35d227a9e62241a16451af6da5053e309be4f91d7
  ed25519_public: 0xad93247bd01307550ec7acd757ce6fb805fcf73db364063265b30a949e90d933
  bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x12ca375c9242101c99ad5fafe8997411f112ae10e0e5b7c4589e107c433700ac
  bandersnatch_public: 0xdee6d555b82024f1ccf8a1e37e60fa60fd40b1958c4bb3006af78647950e1b91
  dns_alt_name: "en5ejs5b2tybkfh4ym5vpfh7nynby73xhtfzmazumtvcijpcsz6ma"

Carol:
  seed: 0x0200000002000000020000000200000002000000020000000200000002000000
  ed25519_secret_seed: 0x0093c8c10a88ebbc99b35b72897a26d259313ee9bad97436a437d2e43aaafa0f
  ed25519_public: 0xcab2b9ff25c2410fbe9b8a717abb298c716a03983c98ceb4def2087500b8e341
  bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x3d71dc0ffd02d90524fda3e4a220e7ec514a258c59457d3077ce4d4f003fd98a
  bandersnatch_public: 0x9326edb21e5541717fde24ec085000b28709847b8aab1ac51f84e94b37ca1b66
  dns_alt_name: "ekwmt37xecoq6a7otkm4ux5gfmm4uwbat4bg5m223shckhaaxdpqa"

David:
  seed: 0x0300000003000000030000000300000003000000030000000300000003000000
  ed25519_secret_seed: 0x69b3a7031787e12bfbdcac1b7a737b3e5a9f9450c37e215f6d3b57730e21001a
  ed25519_public: 0xf30aa5444688b3cab47697b37d5cac5707bb3289e986b19b17db437206931a8d
  bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x107a9148b39a1099eeaee13ac0e3c6b9c256258b51c967747af0f8749398a276
  bandersnatch_public: 0x0746846d17469fb2f95ef365efcab9f4e22fa1feb53111c995376be8019981cc
  dns_alt_name: "etxckkczii4mvm22ox4m3horvx2bwlzerjxbd3n6c36qehdms2idb"

Eve:
  seed: 0x0400000004000000040000000400000004000000040000000400000004000000
  ed25519_secret_seed: 0xb4de9ebf8db5428930baa5a98d26679ab2a03eae7c791d582e6b75b7f018d0d4
  ed25519_public: 0x8b8c5d436f92ecf605421e873a99ec528761eb52a88a2f9a057b3b3003e6f32a
  bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x0bb36f5ba8e3ba602781bb714e67182410440ce18aa800c4cb4dd22525b70409
  bandersnatch_public: 0x151e5c8fe2b9d8a606966a79edd2f9e5db47e83947ce368ccba53bf6ba20a40b
  dns_alt_name: "eled3vb5nse3n7cii6ybvtms5s2bdwvlkivc7cnwa33oatby4txka"

Fergie:
  seed: 0x0500000005000000050000000500000005000000050000000500000005000000
  ed25519_secret_seed: 0x4a6482f8f479e3ba2b845f8cef284f4b3208ba3241ed82caa1b5ce9fc6281730
  ed25519_public: 0xab0084d01534b31c1dd87c81645fd762482a90027754041ca1b56133d0466c06
  bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x75e73b8364bf4753c5802021c6aa6548cddb63fe668e3cacf7b48cdb6824bb09
  bandersnatch_public: 0x2105650944fcd101621fd5bb3124c9fd191d114b7ad936c1d79d734f9f21392e
  dns_alt_name: "elfaiiixcuzmzroa34lajwp52cdsucikaxdviaoeuvnygdi3imtba"
```

</details>

... there are 2^32 dev accounts in total that continue in the same pattern but are unnamed.

Commit message:

Cleanup old JIP-5 account page (#61)
- **Cleanup dev account pre-jip5 stuff**
- **update yarn deps**

---------

Signed-off-by: Oliver Tale-Yazdi <oliver@tasty.limo>

docs/knowledge/basics/dev-accounts.md, after:

---
id: Dev Accounts
sidebar_label: Dev Accounts
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /basics/dev-accounts
---

The well known accounts can be used for testing and are known by all JAM implementations. 
The values are specified by [JIP-5](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/JIPs/pull/2).

## Seeds

The 256 bit seeds for the dev accounts are generated by encoding the index of the validator as unsigned 32-bit little endian integer and repeating that sequence of bits 8 times. You should not hash these seeds, otherwise the created accounts will be different.

There are $2^{32}$ dev seeds in total, but only the first six have canonical names:
- **0** Alice
- **1** Bob
- **2** Carol
- **3** David
- **4** Eve
- **5** Fergie

## Bandersnatch Nomenclature

Only the `bandersnatch_secret_seed` is shown since it is sufficient to calculate the `bandersnatch_public` key.
Internally, many implementations may first generate a *secret* key (aka *Scalar*) and then derive the public key from it.
But this is an implementation detail and therefore not listed here.

## Alice

```yaml
seed: 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
ed25519_secret_seed: 0x996542becdf1e78278dc795679c825faca2e9ed2bf101bf3c4a236d3ed79cf59
ed25519_public: 0x4418fb8c85bb3985394a8c2756d3643457ce614546202a2f50b093d762499ace
bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x007596986419e027e65499cc87027a236bf4a78b5e8bd7f675759d73e7a9c799
bandersnatch_public: 0xff71c6c03ff88adb5ed52c9681de1629a54e702fc14729f6b50d2f0a76f185b3
dns_alt_name: "eecgwpgwq3noky4ijm4jmvjtmuzv44qvigciusxakq5epnrfj2utb"
```

## Bob

```yaml
seed: 0x0100000001000000010000000100000001000000010000000100000001000000
ed25519_secret_seed: 0xb81e308145d97464d2bc92d35d227a9e62241a16451af6da5053e309be4f91d7
ed25519_public: 0xad93247bd01307550ec7acd757ce6fb805fcf73db364063265b30a949e90d933
bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x12ca375c9242101c99ad5fafe8997411f112ae10e0e5b7c4589e107c433700ac
bandersnatch_public: 0xdee6d555b82024f1ccf8a1e37e60fa60fd40b1958c4bb3006af78647950e1b91
dns_alt_name: "en5ejs5b2tybkfh4ym5vpfh7nynby73xhtfzmazumtvcijpcsz6ma"
```

## Carol

```yaml
seed: 0x0200000002000000020000000200000002000000020000000200000002000000
ed25519_secret_seed: 0x0093c8c10a88ebbc99b35b72897a26d259313ee9bad97436a437d2e43aaafa0f
ed25519_public: 0xcab2b9ff25c2410fbe9b8a717abb298c716a03983c98ceb4def2087500b8e341
bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x3d71dc0ffd02d90524fda3e4a220e7ec514a258c59457d3077ce4d4f003fd98a
bandersnatch_public: 0x9326edb21e5541717fde24ec085000b28709847b8aab1ac51f84e94b37ca1b66
dns_alt_name: "ekwmt37xecoq6a7otkm4ux5gfmm4uwbat4bg5m223shckhaaxdpqa"
```

## David

```yaml
seed: 0x0300000003000000030000000300000003000000030000000300000003000000
ed25519_secret_seed: 0x69b3a7031787e12bfbdcac1b7a737b3e5a9f9450c37e215f6d3b57730e21001a
ed25519_public: 0xf30aa5444688b3cab47697b37d5cac5707bb3289e986b19b17db437206931a8d
bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x107a9148b39a1099eeaee13ac0e3c6b9c256258b51c967747af0f8749398a276
bandersnatch_public: 0x0746846d17469fb2f95ef365efcab9f4e22fa1feb53111c995376be8019981cc
dns_alt_name: "etxckkczii4mvm22ox4m3horvx2bwlzerjxbd3n6c36qehdms2idb"
```

## Eve

```yaml
seed: 0x0400000004000000040000000400000004000000040000000400000004000000
ed25519_secret_seed: 0xb4de9ebf8db5428930baa5a98d26679ab2a03eae7c791d582e6b75b7f018d0d4
ed25519_public: 0x8b8c5d436f92ecf605421e873a99ec528761eb52a88a2f9a057b3b3003e6f32a
bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x0bb36f5ba8e3ba602781bb714e67182410440ce18aa800c4cb4dd22525b70409
bandersnatch_public: 0x151e5c8fe2b9d8a606966a79edd2f9e5db47e83947ce368ccba53bf6ba20a40b
dns_alt_name: "eled3vb5nse3n7cii6ybvtms5s2bdwvlkivc7cnwa33oatby4txka"
```

## Fergie

```yaml
seed: 0x0500000005000000050000000500000005000000050000000500000005000000
ed25519_secret_seed: 0x4a6482f8f479e3ba2b845f8cef284f4b3208ba3241ed82caa1b5ce9fc6281730
ed25519_public: 0xab0084d01534b31c1dd87c81645fd762482a90027754041ca1b56133d0466c06
bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x75e73b8364bf4753c5802021c6aa6548cddb63fe668e3cacf7b48cdb6824bb09
bandersnatch_public: 0x2105650944fcd101621fd5bb3124c9fd191d114b7ad936c1d79d734f9f21392e
dns_alt_name: "elfaiiixcuzmzroa34lajwp52cdsucikaxdviaoeuvnygdi3imtba"
```

<details>

<summary>All In One YAML</summary>

```yaml
Alice:
  seed: 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
  ed25519_secret_seed: 0x996542becdf1e78278dc795679c825faca2e9ed2bf101bf3c4a236d3ed79cf59
  ed25519_public: 0x4418fb8c85bb3985394a8c2756d3643457ce614546202a2f50b093d762499ace
  bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x007596986419e027e65499cc87027a236bf4a78b5e8bd7f675759d73e7a9c799
  bandersnatch_public: 0xff71c6c03ff88adb5ed52c9681de1629a54e702fc14729f6b50d2f0a76f185b3
  dns_alt_name: "eecgwpgwq3noky4ijm4jmvjtmuzv44qvigciusxakq5epnrfj2utb"

Bob:
  seed: 0x0100000001000000010000000100000001000000010000000100000001000000
  ed25519_secret_seed: 0xb81e308145d97464d2bc92d35d227a9e62241a16451af6da5053e309be4f91d7
  ed25519_public: 0xad93247bd01307550ec7acd757ce6fb805fcf73db364063265b30a949e90d933
  bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x12ca375c9242101c99ad5fafe8997411f112ae10e0e5b7c4589e107c433700ac
  bandersnatch_public: 0xdee6d555b82024f1ccf8a1e37e60fa60fd40b1958c4bb3006af78647950e1b91
  dns_alt_name: "en5ejs5b2tybkfh4ym5vpfh7nynby73xhtfzmazumtvcijpcsz6ma"

Carol:
  seed: 0x0200000002000000020000000200000002000000020000000200000002000000
  ed25519_secret_seed: 0x0093c8c10a88ebbc99b35b72897a26d259313ee9bad97436a437d2e43aaafa0f
  ed25519_public: 0xcab2b9ff25c2410fbe9b8a717abb298c716a03983c98ceb4def2087500b8e341
  bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x3d71dc0ffd02d90524fda3e4a220e7ec514a258c59457d3077ce4d4f003fd98a
  bandersnatch_public: 0x9326edb21e5541717fde24ec085000b28709847b8aab1ac51f84e94b37ca1b66
  dns_alt_name: "ekwmt37xecoq6a7otkm4ux5gfmm4uwbat4bg5m223shckhaaxdpqa"

David:
  seed: 0x0300000003000000030000000300000003000000030000000300000003000000
  ed25519_secret_seed: 0x69b3a7031787e12bfbdcac1b7a737b3e5a9f9450c37e215f6d3b57730e21001a
  ed25519_public: 0xf30aa5444688b3cab47697b37d5cac5707bb3289e986b19b17db437206931a8d
  bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x107a9148b39a1099eeaee13ac0e3c6b9c256258b51c967747af0f8749398a276
  bandersnatch_public: 0x0746846d17469fb2f95ef365efcab9f4e22fa1feb53111c995376be8019981cc
  dns_alt_name: "etxckkczii4mvm22ox4m3horvx2bwlzerjxbd3n6c36qehdms2idb"

Eve:
  seed: 0x0400000004000000040000000400000004000000040000000400000004000000
  ed25519_secret_seed: 0xb4de9ebf8db5428930baa5a98d26679ab2a03eae7c791d582e6b75b7f018d0d4
  ed25519_public: 0x8b8c5d436f92ecf605421e873a99ec528761eb52a88a2f9a057b3b3003e6f32a
  bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x0bb36f5ba8e3ba602781bb714e67182410440ce18aa800c4cb4dd22525b70409
  bandersnatch_public: 0x151e5c8fe2b9d8a606966a79edd2f9e5db47e83947ce368ccba53bf6ba20a40b
  dns_alt_name: "eled3vb5nse3n7cii6ybvtms5s2bdwvlkivc7cnwa33oatby4txka"

Fergie:
  seed: 0x0500000005000000050000000500000005000000050000000500000005000000
  ed25519_secret_seed: 0x4a6482f8f479e3ba2b845f8cef284f4b3208ba3241ed82caa1b5ce9fc6281730
  ed25519_public: 0xab0084d01534b31c1dd87c81645fd762482a90027754041ca1b56133d0466c06
  bandersnatch_secret_seed: 0x75e73b8364bf4753c5802021c6aa6548cddb63fe668e3cacf7b48cdb6824bb09
  bandersnatch_public: 0x2105650944fcd101621fd5bb3124c9fd191d114b7ad936c1d79d734f9f21392e
  dns_alt_name: "elfaiiixcuzmzroa34lajwp52cdsucikaxdviaoeuvnygdi3imtba"
```

</details>
