docs/knowledge/basics/dev_accounts.md, before:

---
id: Dev Accounts
sidebar_label: Dev Accounts
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /basics/dev-accounts
---

These well known accounts can be used for testing and are known by all JAM node implementations.

## Seeds

The 256 bit seeds for the dev accounts are generated by encoding the index of the validator as unsigned 32-bit little endian integer and repeating that sequence of bits 8 times. You should *not hash* these seeds - otherwise the created accounts will be different.

With the following indices for the accounts:

| Name   | Index |
|--------|-------|
| Alice  | 0     |
| Bob    | 1     |
| Carol  | 2     |
| David  | 3     |
| Eve    | 4     |
| Fergie | 5     |

## Alice

```yaml
seed: 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
ed25519_private: 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
ed25519_public: 0x3b6a27bcceb6a42d62a3a8d02a6f0d73653215771de243a63ac048a18b59da29
bandersnatch_private: 0x51c1537c18eea5c5969cb2ae45c1224cc245de5c5b8e6e25f48fb99f2786ee05
bandersnatch_public: 0x5e465beb01dbafe160ce8216047f2155dd0569f058afd52dcea601025a8d161d
dns_alt_name: "ehnvcppgow2sc2yvdvdicu3ynonsteflxdxrehjr2ybekdc2z3iuq"
```

## Bob

```yaml
seed: 0x0100000001000000010000000100000001000000010000000100000001000000
ed25519_private: 0x0100000001000000010000000100000001000000010000000100000001000000
ed25519_public: 0x22351e22105a19aabb42589162ad7f1ea0df1c25cebf0e4a9fcd261301274862
bandersnatch_private: 0x9e84e7bb7c172ba7c0549f495b2412ce7d9d862719d5de4db97bacd97b60b505
bandersnatch_public: 0x3d5e5a51aab2b048f8686ecd79712a80e3265a114cc73f14bdb2a59233fb66d0
dns_alt_name: "eei2r4iqqlim2vo2clciwfll7d2qn6hbfz27q4su7zutbgajhjbra"
```

## Carol

```yaml
seed: 0x0200000002000000020000000200000002000000020000000200000002000000
ed25519_private: 0x0200000002000000020000000200000002000000020000000200000002000000
ed25519_public: 0xe68e0cf7f26c59f963b5846202d2327cc8bc0c4eff8cb9abd4012f9a71decf00
bandersnatch_private: 0x91ebd09c591e41858a7a2a45c671642708f546c163b76eef0991b755017e7412
bandersnatch_public: 0xaa2b95f7572875b0d0f186552ae745ba8222fc0b5bd456554bfe51c68938f8bc
dns_alt_name: "e42haz57snrm7sy5vqrrafursptelydco76gltk6uaexzu4o6z4aa"
```

## David

```yaml
seed: 0x0300000003000000030000000300000003000000030000000300000003000000
ed25519_private: 0x0300000003000000030000000300000003000000030000000300000003000000
ed25519_public: 0xb3e0e096b02e2ec98a3441410aeddd78c95e27a0da6f411a09c631c0f2bea6e9
bandersnatch_private: 0x40ad858dd0abe3016f7834831c93ae02764e0bb99ee204ffc6777b01c946ac0c
bandersnatch_public: 0x7f6190116d118d643a98878e294ccf62b509e214299931aad8ff9764181a4e33
dns_alt_name: "ewpqobfvqfyxmtcruifaqv3o5pdev4j5a3jxucgqjyyy4b4v6u3uq"
```

## Eve

```yaml
seed: 0x0400000004000000040000000400000004000000040000000400000004000000
ed25519_private: 0x0400000004000000040000000400000004000000040000000400000004000000
ed25519_public: 0x5c7f34a4bd4f2d04076a8c6f9060a0c8d2c6bdd082ceb3eda7df381cb260faff
bandersnatch_private: 0x0dea7844b6b937f8b00acea90a8ce9dfe07fdbd2a1e4ff09022340d9bb159911
bandersnatch_public: 0x48e5fcdce10e0b64ec4eebd0d9211c7bac2f27ce54bca6f7776ff6fee86ab3e3
dns_alt_name: "elr7tjjf5j4wqib3krrxzayfazdjmnpoqqlhlh3nh344bzmta7l7q"
```

## Fergie

```yaml
seed: 0x0500000005000000050000000500000005000000050000000500000005000000
ed25519_private: 0x0500000005000000050000000500000005000000050000000500000005000000
ed25519_public: 0x837ce344bc9defceb0d7de7e9e9925096768b7adb4dad932e532eb6551e0ea02
bandersnatch_private: 0x68f5494ec1c3d3cd8ff2a3cb285abf0e826b2c762d95fc2e953eaef666315403
bandersnatch_public: 0xf16e5352840afb47e206b5c89f560f2611835855cf2e6ebad1acc9520a72591d
dns_alt_name: "eqn6ogrf4txx45mgx3z7j5gjfbftwrn5nwtnnsmxfglvwkupa5iba"
```

<details>

<summary>Yaml File</summary>

```yaml
Alice:
  seed: 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
  ed25519_private: 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
  ed25519_public: 0x3b6a27bcceb6a42d62a3a8d02a6f0d73653215771de243a63ac048a18b59da29
  bandersnatch_private: 0x51c1537c18eea5c5969cb2ae45c1224cc245de5c5b8e6e25f48fb99f2786ee05
  bandersnatch_public: 0x5e465beb01dbafe160ce8216047f2155dd0569f058afd52dcea601025a8d161d
  dns_alt_name: "ehnvcppgow2sc2yvdvdicu3ynonsteflxdxrehjr2ybekdc2z3iuq"

Bob:
  seed: 0x0100000001000000010000000100000001000000010000000100000001000000
  ed25519_private: 0x0100000001000000010000000100000001000000010000000100000001000000
  ed25519_public: 0x22351e22105a19aabb42589162ad7f1ea0df1c25cebf0e4a9fcd261301274862
  bandersnatch_private: 0x9e84e7bb7c172ba7c0549f495b2412ce7d9d862719d5de4db97bacd97b60b505
  bandersnatch_public: 0x3d5e5a51aab2b048f8686ecd79712a80e3265a114cc73f14bdb2a59233fb66d0
  dns_alt_name: "eei2r4iqqlim2vo2clciwfll7d2qn6hbfz27q4su7zutbgajhjbra"

Carol:
  seed: 0x0200000002000000020000000200000002000000020000000200000002000000
  ed25519_private: 0x0200000002000000020000000200000002000000020000000200000002000000
  ed25519_public: 0xe68e0cf7f26c59f963b5846202d2327cc8bc0c4eff8cb9abd4012f9a71decf00
  bandersnatch_private: 0x91ebd09c591e41858a7a2a45c671642708f546c163b76eef0991b755017e7412
  bandersnatch_public: 0xaa2b95f7572875b0d0f186552ae745ba8222fc0b5bd456554bfe51c68938f8bc
  dns_alt_name: "e42haz57snrm7sy5vqrrafursptelydco76gltk6uaexzu4o6z4aa"

David:
  seed: 0x0300000003000000030000000300000003000000030000000300000003000000
  ed25519_private: 0x0300000003000000030000000300000003000000030000000300000003000000
  ed25519_public: 0xb3e0e096b02e2ec98a3441410aeddd78c95e27a0da6f411a09c631c0f2bea6e9
  bandersnatch_private: 0x40ad858dd0abe3016f7834831c93ae02764e0bb99ee204ffc6777b01c946ac0c
  bandersnatch_public: 0x7f6190116d118d643a98878e294ccf62b509e214299931aad8ff9764181a4e33
  dns_alt_name: "ewpqobfvqfyxmtcruifaqv3o5pdev4j5a3jxucgqjyyy4b4v6u3uq"

Eve:
  seed: 0x0400000004000000040000000400000004000000040000000400000004000000
  ed25519_private: 0x0400000004000000040000000400000004000000040000000400000004000000
  ed25519_public: 0x5c7f34a4bd4f2d04076a8c6f9060a0c8d2c6bdd082ceb3eda7df381cb260faff
  bandersnatch_private: 0x0dea7844b6b937f8b00acea90a8ce9dfe07fdbd2a1e4ff09022340d9bb159911
  bandersnatch_public: 0x48e5fcdce10e0b64ec4eebd0d9211c7bac2f27ce54bca6f7776ff6fee86ab3e3
  dns_alt_name: "elr7tjjf5j4wqib3krrxzayfazdjmnpoqqlhlh3nh344bzmta7l7q"

Fergie:
  seed: 0x0500000005000000050000000500000005000000050000000500000005000000
  ed25519_private: 0x0500000005000000050000000500000005000000050000000500000005000000
  ed25519_public: 0x837ce344bc9defceb0d7de7e9e9925096768b7adb4dad932e532eb6551e0ea02
  bandersnatch_private: 0x68f5494ec1c3d3cd8ff2a3cb285abf0e826b2c762d95fc2e953eaef666315403
  bandersnatch_public: 0xf16e5352840afb47e206b5c89f560f2611835855cf2e6ebad1acc9520a72591d
  dns_alt_name: "eqn6ogrf4txx45mgx3z7j5gjfbftwrn5nwtnnsmxfglvwkupa5iba"
```

</details>

... there are 2^32 dev accounts in total that continue in the same pattern but are unnamed.

Commit message:

Remove DNS alt names (#46)
The current names are wrong. Need to fixe them, but until that lets
remove.

Changes:
- Remove DNS alt names
- Add JIP-5 warning that values may change

---------

Signed-off-by: Oliver Tale-Yazdi <oliver@tasty.limo>

docs/knowledge/basics/dev_accounts.md, after:

---
id: Dev Accounts
sidebar_label: Dev Accounts
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /basics/dev-accounts
---

These well known accounts can be used for testing and are known by all JAM node implementations.

:::warning
Please be advised that [JIP-5](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/JIPs/pull/2) will change the concrete values here. An updated version will be available soon.
:::


## Seeds

The 256 bit seeds for the dev accounts are generated by encoding the index of the validator as unsigned 32-bit little endian integer and repeating that sequence of bits 8 times. You should *not hash* these seeds - otherwise the created accounts will be different.

With the following indices for the accounts:

| Name   | Index |
|--------|-------|
| Alice  | 0     |
| Bob    | 1     |
| Carol  | 2     |
| David  | 3     |
| Eve    | 4     |
| Fergie | 5     |

## Alice

```yaml
seed: 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
ed25519_private: 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
ed25519_public: 0x3b6a27bcceb6a42d62a3a8d02a6f0d73653215771de243a63ac048a18b59da29
bandersnatch_private: 0x51c1537c18eea5c5969cb2ae45c1224cc245de5c5b8e6e25f48fb99f2786ee05
bandersnatch_public: 0x5e465beb01dbafe160ce8216047f2155dd0569f058afd52dcea601025a8d161d
```

## Bob

```yaml
seed: 0x0100000001000000010000000100000001000000010000000100000001000000
ed25519_private: 0x0100000001000000010000000100000001000000010000000100000001000000
ed25519_public: 0x22351e22105a19aabb42589162ad7f1ea0df1c25cebf0e4a9fcd261301274862
bandersnatch_private: 0x9e84e7bb7c172ba7c0549f495b2412ce7d9d862719d5de4db97bacd97b60b505
bandersnatch_public: 0x3d5e5a51aab2b048f8686ecd79712a80e3265a114cc73f14bdb2a59233fb66d0
```

## Carol

```yaml
seed: 0x0200000002000000020000000200000002000000020000000200000002000000
ed25519_private: 0x0200000002000000020000000200000002000000020000000200000002000000
ed25519_public: 0xe68e0cf7f26c59f963b5846202d2327cc8bc0c4eff8cb9abd4012f9a71decf00
bandersnatch_private: 0x91ebd09c591e41858a7a2a45c671642708f546c163b76eef0991b755017e7412
bandersnatch_public: 0xaa2b95f7572875b0d0f186552ae745ba8222fc0b5bd456554bfe51c68938f8bc
```

## David

```yaml
seed: 0x0300000003000000030000000300000003000000030000000300000003000000
ed25519_private: 0x0300000003000000030000000300000003000000030000000300000003000000
ed25519_public: 0xb3e0e096b02e2ec98a3441410aeddd78c95e27a0da6f411a09c631c0f2bea6e9
bandersnatch_private: 0x40ad858dd0abe3016f7834831c93ae02764e0bb99ee204ffc6777b01c946ac0c
bandersnatch_public: 0x7f6190116d118d643a98878e294ccf62b509e214299931aad8ff9764181a4e33
```

## Eve

```yaml
seed: 0x0400000004000000040000000400000004000000040000000400000004000000
ed25519_private: 0x0400000004000000040000000400000004000000040000000400000004000000
ed25519_public: 0x5c7f34a4bd4f2d04076a8c6f9060a0c8d2c6bdd082ceb3eda7df381cb260faff
bandersnatch_private: 0x0dea7844b6b937f8b00acea90a8ce9dfe07fdbd2a1e4ff09022340d9bb159911
bandersnatch_public: 0x48e5fcdce10e0b64ec4eebd0d9211c7bac2f27ce54bca6f7776ff6fee86ab3e3
```

## Fergie

```yaml
seed: 0x0500000005000000050000000500000005000000050000000500000005000000
ed25519_private: 0x0500000005000000050000000500000005000000050000000500000005000000
ed25519_public: 0x837ce344bc9defceb0d7de7e9e9925096768b7adb4dad932e532eb6551e0ea02
bandersnatch_private: 0x68f5494ec1c3d3cd8ff2a3cb285abf0e826b2c762d95fc2e953eaef666315403
bandersnatch_public: 0xf16e5352840afb47e206b5c89f560f2611835855cf2e6ebad1acc9520a72591d
```

<details>

<summary>Yaml File</summary>

```yaml
Alice:
  seed: 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
  ed25519_private: 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
  ed25519_public: 0x3b6a27bcceb6a42d62a3a8d02a6f0d73653215771de243a63ac048a18b59da29
  bandersnatch_private: 0x51c1537c18eea5c5969cb2ae45c1224cc245de5c5b8e6e25f48fb99f2786ee05
  bandersnatch_public: 0x5e465beb01dbafe160ce8216047f2155dd0569f058afd52dcea601025a8d161d

Bob:
  seed: 0x0100000001000000010000000100000001000000010000000100000001000000
  ed25519_private: 0x0100000001000000010000000100000001000000010000000100000001000000
  ed25519_public: 0x22351e22105a19aabb42589162ad7f1ea0df1c25cebf0e4a9fcd261301274862
  bandersnatch_private: 0x9e84e7bb7c172ba7c0549f495b2412ce7d9d862719d5de4db97bacd97b60b505
  bandersnatch_public: 0x3d5e5a51aab2b048f8686ecd79712a80e3265a114cc73f14bdb2a59233fb66d0

Carol:
  seed: 0x0200000002000000020000000200000002000000020000000200000002000000
  ed25519_private: 0x0200000002000000020000000200000002000000020000000200000002000000
  ed25519_public: 0xe68e0cf7f26c59f963b5846202d2327cc8bc0c4eff8cb9abd4012f9a71decf00
  bandersnatch_private: 0x91ebd09c591e41858a7a2a45c671642708f546c163b76eef0991b755017e7412
  bandersnatch_public: 0xaa2b95f7572875b0d0f186552ae745ba8222fc0b5bd456554bfe51c68938f8bc

David:
  seed: 0x0300000003000000030000000300000003000000030000000300000003000000
  ed25519_private: 0x0300000003000000030000000300000003000000030000000300000003000000
  ed25519_public: 0xb3e0e096b02e2ec98a3441410aeddd78c95e27a0da6f411a09c631c0f2bea6e9
  bandersnatch_private: 0x40ad858dd0abe3016f7834831c93ae02764e0bb99ee204ffc6777b01c946ac0c
  bandersnatch_public: 0x7f6190116d118d643a98878e294ccf62b509e214299931aad8ff9764181a4e33

Eve:
  seed: 0x0400000004000000040000000400000004000000040000000400000004000000
  ed25519_private: 0x0400000004000000040000000400000004000000040000000400000004000000
  ed25519_public: 0x5c7f34a4bd4f2d04076a8c6f9060a0c8d2c6bdd082ceb3eda7df381cb260faff
  bandersnatch_private: 0x0dea7844b6b937f8b00acea90a8ce9dfe07fdbd2a1e4ff09022340d9bb159911
  bandersnatch_public: 0x48e5fcdce10e0b64ec4eebd0d9211c7bac2f27ce54bca6f7776ff6fee86ab3e3

Fergie:
  seed: 0x0500000005000000050000000500000005000000050000000500000005000000
  ed25519_private: 0x0500000005000000050000000500000005000000050000000500000005000000
  ed25519_public: 0x837ce344bc9defceb0d7de7e9e9925096768b7adb4dad932e532eb6551e0ea02
  bandersnatch_private: 0x68f5494ec1c3d3cd8ff2a3cb285abf0e826b2c762d95fc2e953eaef666315403
  bandersnatch_public: 0xf16e5352840afb47e206b5c89f560f2611835855cf2e6ebad1acc9520a72591d
```

</details>

... there are 2^32 dev accounts in total that continue in the same pattern but are unnamed.
