docs/intro.md, before:

---
title: Welcome
sidebar_position: 0
slug: /
---

This wiki hosts information for JAM implementers. The goal is to aid collaboration and [testnet
setup](https://github.com/jam-duna/jamtestnet). Any information that is not specified in the [Gray
Paper](https://graypaper.com) can be added here.

Joins us to build JAM (and win some [prizes](https://jam.web3.foundation/) 🤫):
- [Telegram Testnet](https://t.me/jamtestnet): Causal and public channel to orchestrate on testnet setup.
- [Matrix Gray Paper](https://matrix.to/#/#graypaper:polkadot.io): Technical discussion about the Gray Paper - not implementations.
- [Matrix JAM](https://matrix.to/#/#jam:polkadot.io): Discussions about implementing the Gray Paper.
- [Matrix JAM0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1_Ar0CWH8cDq_mAoVkqZ20fXjfNQQ9ziv1jsVJBAfd1c/edit?gid=0#gid=0): Implementors only chat, ask a member to invite, eg `@sourabhniyogi`.

The [official](https://jam.web3.foundation/) and [unofficial](https://hackmd.io/@polkadot/jamprize) communication rules apply to all channels, have fun!

Commit message:

JAM Implementers DAO -- starting membership + drafts (#19)
Based on JAM Implementers DAO being selected by the [Decentralized
Voices Cohort
4](https://medium.com/web3foundation/decentralized-voices-cohort-4-delegates-announced-a5a9c64927fd)
we would like docs.jamcha.in to be a source of truth for membership, a
place to house OpenGov participation mechanics (in draft form and
ratified) and a code of conduct.

---------

Signed-off-by: Oliver Tale-Yazdi <oliver@tasty.limo>
Co-authored-by: Oliver Tale-Yazdi <oliver.tale-yazdi@parity.io>
Co-authored-by: Oliver Tale-Yazdi <oliver@tasty.limo>
Co-authored-by: Emiel Sebastiaan <14069142+emielsebastiaan@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/intro.md, after:

---
title: Welcome
sidebar_position: 0
slug: /
---

This wiki hosts information for JAM implementers. The goal is to aid collaboration and [testnet
setup](https://github.com/jam-duna/jamtestnet). Any information that is not specified in the [Gray
Paper](https://graypaper.com) can be added here.

Join us to build JAM (and win some [prizes](https://jam.web3.foundation/) 🤫):
- [Telegram JAM Testnet](https://t.me/jamtestnet): Casual and public channel to orchestrate a testnet setup on the way to the JAM Toaster.
- [Matrix Gray Paper](https://matrix.to/#/#graypaper:polkadot.io): Technical discussion about the Gray Paper - not implementations.
- [Matrix JAM](https://matrix.to/#/#jam:polkadot.io): Discussions about implementing the Gray Paper.
- [Matrix JAM Implementers Room](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1_Ar0CWH8cDq_mAoVkqZ20fXjfNQQ9ziv1jsVJBAfd1c/edit?gid=0#gid=0): Implementors only chat, ask a [JAM Implementer DAO member](/dao) to invite
- [Testnet Compliance](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1JVt_1daKJWslCaP9hfggKQSN4aGuV_le0XkKcsrjXDc/edit?gid=0#gid=0)

The [official](https://jam.web3.foundation/) and [unofficial](https://hackmd.io/@polkadot/jamprize) communication rules apply to all channels, have fun!
